XCLIP(1)                    General Commands Manual                   XCLIP(1)

NAME
       xclip - command line interface to X selections (clipboard)

SYNOPSIS
       xclip [OPTION] [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  from  standard in, or from one or more files, and makes the data
       available as an X selection for pasting  into  X  applications.  Prints
       current X selection to standard out.

       -i, -in
              read  text  into  X  selection from standard input or files (de‐
              fault)

       -o, -out
              print the selection to standard out (generally for piping  to  a
              file or program)

       -f, -filter
              when  xclip  is  invoked in the in mode with output level set to
              silent (the defaults), the filter option  will  cause  xclip  to
              print the text piped to standard in back to standard out unmodi‐
              fied

       -r, -rmlastnl
              when the last character of the selection is a newline character,
              remove it. Newline characters that are not the last character in
              the selection are not affected. If the selection  does  not  end
              with a newline character, this option has no effect. This option
              is useful for copying one-line output of programs  like  pwd  to
              the  clipboard to paste it again into the command prompt without
              executing the line immediately due to the newline character  pwd
              appends.

       -l n, -loops n
              number  of  X selection requests (pastes into X applications) to
              wait for before exiting, with a value  of  0  (default)  causing
              xclip  to wait for an unlimited number of requests until another
              application (possibly another invocation of xclip) takes  owner‐
              ship of the selection.

       -t t, -target t
              specify  a  particular  data format using the given target atom.
              With -o the special target atom name "TARGETS" can  be  used  to
              get a list of valid target atoms for this selection. The default
              target is "STRING". For more information about target atoms  re‐
              fer to ICCCM section 2.6.2

       -d, -display
              X  display  to  use  (e.g. "localhost:0"), xclip defaults to the
              value in $DISPLAY if this option is omitted

       -h, -help
              show quick summary of options

       -selection
              specify which X selection to use, options are "primary"  to  use
              XA_PRIMARY  (default),  "secondary"  for  XA_SECONDARY or "clip‐
              board" for XA_CLIPBOARD

       -version
              show version information

       -silent
              fork into the background to wait for requests, no  informational
              output, errors only (default)

       -quiet show informational messages on the terminal and run in the fore‐
              ground

       -verbose
              provide a running commentary of what xclip is doing

       -noutf8
              operate in legacy (i.e. non UTF-8) mode for  backwards  compati‐
              bility  (Use  this option only when really necessary, as the old
              behavior was broken)

       -sensitive
              clear sensitive data from seleciton buffer  after  being  pasted
              once.  This is currently implemented as -wait 50. See NOTES

       -wait n
              after  the first paste, wait for n milliseconds. If a subsequent
              paste request arrives before the timer expires, reset the timer.
              Once  the  timer expires, the selection buffer is cleared so the
              data cannot be pasted again.

       xclip reads text from standard in or files and makes  it  available  to
       other  X applications for pasting as an X selection (traditionally with
       the middle mouse button). It reads from all files  specified,  or  from
       standard  in  if  no files are specified. xclip can also print the con‐
       tents of a selection to standard out with the -o option.

       xclip was designed to allow tighter integration of X  applications  and
       command  line  programs.  The default action is to silently wait in the
       background for X selection requests (pastes) until another  X  applica‐
       tion places data in the clipboard, at which point xclip exits silently.
       You can use the -verbose option to see if and when xclip  actually  re‐
       ceives selection requests from other X applications.

       Options  can be abbreviated as long as they remain unambiguous. For ex‐
       ample, it is possible to use -d or -disp instead of -display.  However,
       -v  couldn't  be  used  because  it is ambiguous (it could be short for
       -verbose or -version), so it would be interpreted as a filename.

       Note that only the first character of the selection specified with  the
       -selection  option  is important. This means that "p", "sec" and "clip"
       would have the same effect as using "primary",  "secondary"  or  "clip‐
       board" respectively.

EXAMPLES
       I hate man pages without examples!

       uptime | xclip

       Put  your uptime in the X selection. Then middle click in an X applica‐
       tion to paste.

       xclip -o > helloworld.c

       Put the contents of the selection into a file.

       xclip -t text/html index.html

       Middle click in an X application supporting HTML to paste the  contents
       of the given file as HTML.

       xclip -loops 10 -verbose /etc/motd

       Exit  after  /etc/motd  (message  of the day) has been pasted 10 times.
       Show how many selection requests (pastes) have been processed.

NOTES
       Using the -sensitive option will clear the selection buffer of the sen‐
       sitive  information  50  milliseconds  after it has been pasted, effec‐
       tively only allowing the selection to be pasted once. In some instances
       this  may  be too low and will prevent pasting. If this is the case, or
       if the user needs to be able to paste more than  once  for  some  other
       reason,  they may use -wait n instead. -wait is the same as -sensitive,
       except it allows one to adjust the time to wait before clearing the se‐
       lection to be n milliseconds.

       Ideally,  -sensitive would allow exactly one paste and not need a time‐
       out, but due to subtleties in the way the X clipboard  protocol  works,
       doing so is not as simple as it may seem.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
              X display to use if none is specified with the -display option.

REPORTING BUGS
       Please  report  any bugs, problems, queries, experiences, etc. directly
       to the author.

AUTHORS
       Kim Saunders <kims@debian.org> Peter Åstrand <astrand@lysator.liu.se>

                                                                      XCLIP(1)
